---
layout: post
title: We as a society have not had the time to digest and quantify the value of our privacy
date: 2011-12-29 00:39
---

Hacker News "discussion":http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3402859 with "comment":http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3403006:

bq. Apple's bullshit is strictly business. Google's and Facebook's bullshits affects peoples privacy, and, if they live in a country that values privacy, actually violates their fundamental rights.

Older generations know that something about sharing our lives on the web _feels_ bad.  However, we aren't able to quantity that feeling, at least in a monetary sense and not in the same way we comprehend a business transaction which involves purchasing goods for money directly effects the bottom line for a company.  But companies such as Google and Facebook which sell our privacy as a core business model have figured out what our privacy is worth.  It's worth is measured in acronyms such as CPC, CTR and RPM.

As a society we have not had the time to adjust to these new versions of bullshit.  It's as if our bullshit filters are not fully tuned and we're not quite fully grasping the message that privacy advocates are telling us.

I think that Apple is positioning itself as the company which best respects your privacy largely through avoiding business models which involve advertising.  I think there's money to be made in being the company which provides you that user experience without giving you that icky feeling that can't quite quantify.




