---
layout: post
title: Apps I use on Android
date: 2011-12-15 01:45
---

It has been a bit over a year since I have had my "HTC Droid Incredible":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Droid_Incredible.  I could go into it more but I can say that it has been a thoroughly unenjoyable experience.  I have found no joy in using an Android phone.  Strangely enough after reviewing the apps I have installed on the web, I only came to the figure of 52 apps total (it also counts some pre-installed apps, probably since updates were issued).  Thankfully, my workplace will be upgrading us to iPhone's in the next few weeks.  I can't wait.  I thought I'd take this opportunity to run through the apps I use on Android.

*K-9 Mail* - I use this for Yahoo! Mail since I can't get Yahoo! Mail working on the stock HTC email application.

*Gmail* - This works much better than the stock HTC email application.  I only use the stock HTC email application for work Exchange email.

*Facebook* - It's aight.

*"TweetDeck":https://market.android.com/details?id=com.thedeck.android.app* - The only Twitter app that I'm satisfied with and I've tried quite a few.  It's one of the rare apps which actually scrolls nicely.  Kudos to the devs at TweetDeck for putting in extra effort to implement smooth scrolling code.  I actually bought TweetBot today on my iPad just so that I could use it when I get my iPhone.

*Google Reader* - Can't say I use this much but have it on there.

*QuickPic* - This works much better than the stock HTC gallery application.

*Kik Messenger* - Like a BlackBerry Messenger replacement.

*Out Of Milk* - The only tollerable shopping list application I have found.  One of the few 'polished' Android applications I have found.

*PhotoShop* - Used to crop screen shots.

*ConnectBot* - Used to SSH to work servers occasionally.

*"AntiVirus Free":https://market.android.com/details?id=com.zrgiu.antivirus* - Because Android has malware.

*"Screenshot":https://market.android.com/details?id=com.geeksoft.screenshot* - Used to take screen shots.

*"AdFree":https://market.android.com/details?id=com.bigtincan.android.adfree* - Used to block ads.

*Titanium Backup* - Used to backup pre-installed crap applications which I then uninstalled.

*Bria* - Rarely used but used for work VoIP for testing.

*CSipSimple* - Rarely used but used for work VoIP testing.

