---
layout: post
---

h1(#gowalla). "Facebook acquires Gowalla":http://money.cnn.com/2011/12/02/technology/gowalla_facebook/

bq. Facebook views takeovers as a good way to build up its talent bench.

Maybe a year or so ago I remember looking up this "really annoying":http://getsatisfaction.com/gowalla/topics/gowalla_is_a_pain_in_my_arse bug that didn't allow you to block Gowalla from your Facebook feed.  It was the _only_ 3rd party app that couldn't be blocked.  I assumed at the time that Facebook was actually using Gowalla as a back end to Facebook Places.  In which case, acquiring Gowalla would be a natural fit (assuming I'm somewhat correct).

</br>

h1(#playbook). BlackBerry Playbooks in 2012

RIM put out a "press release":http://press.rim.com/release.jsp?id=5267 today that they would record a "pre-tax provision" of approximately $485 million.  From what I understand that's just a fancy way of saying that they're taking a "writedown":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Write-off#Writedown.  This is all due to an unsold "high level of BlackBerry inventory".

bq. Analyst Jeffrey Fidacaro of Susquehanna Financial Group forecast RIM will sell 8 million PlayBooks in the next fiscal year. He said investors appear to be assuming sales of 10 million units, a figure he said is optimistic. 

"Just over one year ago":http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/rim-climbs-as-analysts-forecast-growing-demand-for-playbook.html, investors were assuming sales of 10 million and analysts were forecasting sales of 8 million BlackBerry Playbooks for 2012.

