---
layout: post
title: Google needs a partner for technologies like Dart
date: 2011-12-25 08:35
---

"MG Seigler writes:":http://parislemon.com/post/14695710791/pay-to-stay

bq. One thing is certain: Google is not paying Mozilla a billion dollars out of the kindness of their hearts. Doing so would be irresponsible to their shareholders. Again, they’re paying all that money to a competitor.

Google employee "Peter Kasting replies:":https://plus.google.com/114128403856330399812/posts/9dKsD7Mi7JU

bq. Google is funding a partner. We and Mozilla are working together to make the web awesome.

To me, the word 'partner' and 'competitor' are just semantics where both terms can apply based on the context.

In Google's view if Revenue from Mozilla > Cost to pay Mozilla then it's a fully valid deal.  Based on "recent statistics":http://gs.statcounter.com/#browser-ww-monthly-200807-201111 Firefox and Google Chrome browser marketshare brings them to over 50% of overall market share.

I'd like to comment on the word 'awesome'.

I think Google needs a 'partner' if they want to push forward 'awesome' (and controversial) technologies like Dart.  Dart is a technology which JavaScript creator and Mozilla's CTO Brendan Eich has "stated":https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2982949 "I guarantee you that Apple and Microsoft (and Opera and Mozilla, but the first two are enough) will _never_ embed the Dart VM."

With Google lining the pockets of Mozilla certainly gives them more incentive to work on Dart support and having a technology supported by Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox means it is supported by a majority of browsers.

It is ironic that Google wants others to adopt 'awesome' technologies but is the only major browser which "does not support":http://www.wired.com/epicenter/2011/04/chrome-do-not-track/ the 'Do Not Track' flag.
