---
layout: post
title: What Eric Schmidt actually said
---

bq. Whether you like Android or not, you will support that platform, and maybe you'll even deliver it first.

The quote above is significant because it was transcribed incorrectly in Stephen Shankland's "CNET article.":http://news.cnet.com/8301-30685_3-57338276-264/googles-schmidt-android-leads-the-iphone/ A couple of prominent bloggers took the incorrect quote and ran with it as the headline to "their":http://www.marco.org/2011/12/07/eric-schmidt-android-leads-the-iphone "posts.":http://daringfireball.net/linked/2011/12/07/marco-or-not

bq. Whether you like ICS or not, and again I like it a great deal, you will want to develop for that platform, and perhaps even first.

That is what he actually said.  I actually wanted to see the actual interview because I wanted see how he delivered the quoted words.  So here it is "in context with the lead up question.":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t02iJn5Ypio#t=41m12s

The important word missing from the originally quoted CNET article is the word 'want'.  It totally changes the context of the message and it doesn't come across as threatening at all.  The basic stance from Google's perspective is that the Android platform has a significant market share and volume.  And with that volume comes an inkling that you may _want_ to develop for Android...  Which makes logical sense.

*UPDATE:* This post was "featured on Hacker News":http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3328619 where it reached the number 1 position and received over 30,000 unique visitors.

